+++
title = "Hoi An"
date = "2009-02-16T04:06:35+00:00"
draft = false
robots = "noindex, nofollow"
description = "Hoi An is cool. A little touristy, but that also means it comes with a few creature comforts - a decent coffee for starters!"
slug = "hoi-an"
categories = ["travelling"]
tags = ["hoi-an", "Vietnam"]
+++

Hoi An is cool. A little touristy, but that also means it comes with a few creature comforts - a decent coffee for starters!

We got there by taking the famed Re-unification Express to Da Nang and then grabbing a cab (after a fake walking away saved us another USD2 on be fare) to Hoi An. We took in some stunning scenery on the train as it hugged the mountainous coast line on it's meander from Hue.

While looking for a hotel we bumped into Mike and Kate who we'd met on our <a title="Halong Bay" href="/posts/halong-bay/" target="_blank">Halong Bay</a> trip. The loose plan was to meet up with them for beers when we bumped into each other later, but we didn't see each other again.

We spent 2 nights in Hoi An to re-coup and split our time between wandering the town - stopping for the occasional beer or coffee -, relaxing on the beach (a short cycle away) and <a title="Getting Tailored" href="/posts/suits-you-sir/" target="_blank">Getting Tailored</a>.

We had a stunning Valentines meal at on of the top-end restaurants on the quite side of the river. The place had just opened and the food was excellent.

We also found a nice little chilled out wine bar that served decent wine at a fair price (wine in Asia is relatively expensive...5-10 times cost of beer). We had a night cap here on both nights.